Zomato PowerBI Analysis, Report, and Dashboard

# -Questions to be answered-
	
I want to be able to answer the following questions:
  - Who are Zomato’s customers?
  - What segments can we split them into?
  - What is their purchasing behavior?
  - What makes certain customers more profitable than others?
  - What steps can we take to improve customer retention?


Hypothesis
From my initial EPA, most of our user base is composed of people in their 20’s. The biggest spenders being single, graduate and postgraduate individuals. From this initial analysis, I hypothesize:
A higher proportion of orders placed through the app are from customers who report higher income levels
Users over the age of 33 and/or those with children are less engaged with the app than users under 33 and without children
Customers in the 20-29 age group have higher average order values compared to other age groups
Married customers with children tend to spend more per order and have higher lifetime spend compared to single customers or those without children

Visualizations to be used

Bar Charts: Good for comparing the overall distribution of customer demographics (age groups, income, etc.) and order behavior.
Tableau Dashboard: Building a dashboard with filters to visualize and drill down into different segments. Additional visualizations I might consider:
Heatmaps: For understanding time-of-day or weekday effects on order frequency.
Cohort Analysis: Tracking customer retention and comparing behaviors over time.
Box Plots: For understanding order value distribution by age group, income, etc.




Data Management

	Tables:
        The two main tables I will be referencing are the Users and Orders tables. 
      I believe I should create new tables to aggregate the data I want to see based on each cohort so to do this I can work in Excel and create groupings based on different metrics such as age, first order dates and so on.

  Columns:
    User_id from Orders table and User_id from Users table joined at “many to one” cardinality, single cross-filter direction
    Orders Table:
      To get data on total spending from users
      Sales_amount
      Sales_qty 

    Users Table:
      To get data regarding demographics such as age, occupation, marital status, family size, educational qualifications, reported income
      Age
      Educational Qualifications
      Family Size
      Marital Status
      Monthly Income
      Occupation

Conclusions:

  - Weekend ordering is remarkably low, but larger families spend more on Sundays than any other day of the week.
  - Only around 5% of our customers repeat an order after a month, new customer accrual decreased month by month.
  - Students who dont recieve an income generate most of our sales.

Recommendations: 
  - Create a "Family Meal Deal" to attract more family ordering on weekends
  - Create a "New Customer Incentive" that can be redeemed on first order to attract new customers. 
    Implement a monthly incentive to increase retention rates for existing customers.
  - Create a "Student Version" of the app that allows for reduced fees for people who sign up
    with a student/university email.




	
	


